So anyway, Tom created this wonderful deck
and I was just gonna copy it because it's a quarter deck,
but I figured that that wasn't right.
So I'm just presenting his great slides that he built.
So I'm very happy to announce that we have recently closed
like the most liked issue in the RStudio IDE repo,
519 votes for it,
which is the request to have Copilot integrated in the IDE.
We know that other IDEs have it
and RStudio didn't have it,
and we'll talk about a little why.
So yeah, we have that now.
So what I wanna do, I wanna talk about this
and how you can use it and also other alternatives
to be able to use LLX, right?
So one of the things that I just wanna talk about real quick
is the famous generative AI, right?
We hear that term a lot now.
It feels like a big buzzword, right?
Just like big data was at one point.
But essentially what it boils down to is using models
to be able to create new content, right?
Such as text or we can do images or videos
or things like that.
It's something that becomes very useful,
especially in the development process, right?
So typically we think of models as something that we use
for as a product of our jobs.
In this case, we're consuming the model, right?
So when it comes to the actual text for generative AI,
what we're talking about is that we're using it
to complete something, right?
So we're training the model in a way that
it's able to not only predict like your next word,
it's able to predict like the next sentence
or thought or paragraph, right?
And so if you have used ChatGPT,
you basically are familiar with how it does it.
But unlike the autocomplete in your phone
that is usually wrong,
something such as ChatGPT is trained
with billions and billions of words
and how they're stringed together.
So it's very well-educated when it comes to that.
So what Copilot does is that it takes those ideas, right?
But instead of trying to predict your next word
or next paragraph that you wanna write in prose,
it predicts the code that you're trying to generate, right?
And that's why it becomes very useful
because with it, then you can actually use it
to write your code real fast, right?
So we will all be in the same situation
where we have to write code.
And we know that we're always gonna be like using the same,
there's the same code that we usually copy
or we have to come up with the same mechanism
to do something and maybe in varied ways.
Well, that's where Copilot comes in
where it makes it easier for us, right?
Now, in RStudio, you are used to using the autocomplete,
right?
So this is a lot of words here.
I'm just gonna go into this part
so to kind of for you to see as I'm talking about it.
So the RStudio one, we're used to
that it's gonna predict the next word.
In other words, like the next function,
maybe the variable that you're gonna select
and that's it, right?
And in order for you to select the autocompleted thing,
you use the dropdown and then select the one
that you write it with your mouse or with your keyboard.
The way that Copilot works is that
it actually provides a sort of suggested completion, right?
Very similar again to how it works
with like Google Docs or your phone.
It actually gives you like a preview
of the code that could be,
and that's the part that we didn't have before.
That's called the shadow code, right?
So it's code that's being suggested,
but it's not code that's official in your script, right?
So that's where it becomes really useful
because now with the change that in RStudio that we have,
that now it allows for the shadow code,
now we can use Copilot, right?
So that was the biggest thing.
And then here's a preview of that right now.
So what's really neat is that Ghost Text
can go beyond just a dropdown, right?
Ghost Text can do multiple lines.
And what we do is that we provide some context, right?
As a comment in your code that says, like example here,
calculate the average field efficiency of cars
and then group them by the cylinder.
And then the Copilot generates that.
You start typing library dplyr
and all of a sudden Copilot says,
oh, I know exactly what you're gonna write here.
And then you have it, right?
Then you can use it.
Also notice that the code itself, the shadow code,
doesn't generate line six and seven in this case.
And that's because it's not official code,
like I mentioned, right?
This is just Ghost code that you can actually accept
or not accept if you don't want to be part of your code.
So here's a demo of how it looks.
Notice that it says Copilot completion response received.
So as you're writing, it's gonna be going over
and hitting the API, which is the other big difference,
is that with the regular dropdown autocomplete
that we're used to,
that's all inside the RStudio IDE installation files, right?
But with Copilot, this is something
that is actually going out, right?
To the Copilot API and sending the code that you have
and the comments and all that,
and then sending back the request,
excuse me, the responses, right?
So this is something that, of course, being in pharma,
that's something I'm sure that there's gonna be some things
that you're gonna have to talk through
within your organization to be able to use.
But even in your personal life,
if you're recording from home and stuff,
this may be something that you can use immediately.
What you do today, once you upgrade your RStudio IDE,
you'll see on the global settings,
a new option at the bottom called Copilot,
and that's where you're gonna turn it on, right?
You start the process, and then it'll walk you
through getting the token from GitHub,
and then you'll be able to use it, right?
So that's what you will have to use
in order to get it to work.
So here, what Tom was wanting to show
is how we can use it to create a quick game-solving code,
and that you can be using very specific
and simple comments can get you there.
So what we want is to be able to,
for it to create a few functions that would solve a game,
and that's whenever there's multiple little words like this,
like what is the word that is supposed
to be across all these words, right?
So he takes the example here of the actual answers,
but what we want is for it to actually give me the,
for it to solve it for me.
So you'll notice here, I start by getting
the latest for today of whatever date I want to put in.
He puts all these comments in order to get it right, right?
So it's gonna download, excuse me,
yeah, it's gonna download the proper date
for that day's puzzle, and it's gonna replace it
with dashes instead of forward slashes,
and create the URL that I need
in order to download the latest file, right?
I think I'm running out of time here.
So then we can see how Tom used it here
to create the actual functions that will find
and replace through dredgex the underscores
based on the words that are like your hint words, right?
But notice that all he's doing
is just adding the comments, right?
And those comments serve as a prompt for Copilot to use.
And of course, we're gonna share the link to this
so you can see we also have the entire document
that you can recreate if you want to.
And then he used it to create all of it
all the way down to where you can start
with just guess word and you put in the date
and that will pick up the clues and come up with responses.
In this case, you notice that the program
that was 99.99% created by Copilot
is working with no problems.
Let me...
Are they running out of time?
I think we have maybe last 30 seconds
if you can wrap up.
Yeah, just real quick.
The other way that we can talk to LLMs is through chatter.
It's a new package,
and this one, you don't need to upgrade RStudio.
You just install it from GitHub.
And this will be more like you're used to today
where you can actually chat with JGPT via the RStudio ID.
It's a shiny app that you can copy the code
that it comes back and or just transfer it directly.
So thank you.
I appreciate y'all's time.